
	Replication, Availability and Scalability
	(http://www.themagicnumber.es/replication-in-postgresql-i?lang=en
	 http://usamadar.com/2012/07/17/postgresql-replication-options/
	 
	Why Replication
	- Failover, load balancing
	 
	Replication Warm Stand by
	- Replication is a technique used to store objects of one database in multiple locations. 
	  This allows us to have an exact or partial replica of the database that can be used as 
	  an emergency backup and also to perform some queries and reduce the load on the main server.
	  <> Cannot read from slave node
	  
	Warm StandBy/Log Shipping
	- This solution came natively with PostgreSQL from the 8.3 version. It is based in the 
	  periodical shipping of WAL files to the secondary server. The WAL files or Write Ahead 
	  Logging are similar to the Redo Log files of other DBA. Every time that a transaction 
	  is committed in the database, it is also written to a file. That way, if there is a 
	  mishap with the database it can be restored using the WAL files.
	  
	Advantages
	- Easy to implement, modifying just 6 lines in the configuration files the system ready.
	  All the actions that we made on the main server, including DLL sentences, will be replicated 
	  to the secondary (sometimes this is a disadvantage, for example, if you only want to 
	  replicate one of the databases in a server or if you want to have different indexes).
	  
	Disadvantages
	- The Warm StandBy Server cannot be used to ease the load on the main one because it is not 
	  possible to run queries on it.
	  
      You can specify the WAL files shipping period or ‘timeout ‘, but if this is really low, you 
	  can overload the server or the network. Depending of the level of transactions that you have, 
	  it is possible that you can lose some of them in the event of an emergency. Both of the 
	  machines have to have the same architecture (32 or 64 bits) and the same PostgreSQL version.
	  
	Replication Hot Standby
	- Hot Standby is the name for the capability to run queries on a database that is currently 
	  performing archive recovery. Log Shipping replication allows you to create one or more 
	  standby nodes that are replicas of the primary node (or master node). Standby nodes can 
	  then be used for read-only query access.
	  
	  Hot Standby was developed for inclusion in PostgreSQL 9.0 by Simon Riggs of 2ndQuadrant 
	  via public sponsorship.
	
	Replication Streaming
	- Capability to send changes to the slaves and keep them current. Using WAL files to write 
	  transaction to the slave nodes asynchronously and asynchronously. With larger systems a WAL 
	  archive is required between the master and slaves.
	
	Write-Ahead Logging
	- Write-Ahead Logging (WAL) is a standard method for ensuring data integrity. Briefly, 
	  WAL's central concept is that changes to data files (where tables and indexes reside) must 
	  be written only after those changes have been logged, that is, after log records describing 
	  the changes have been flushed to permanent storage. If we follow this procedure, we do not 
	  need to flush data pages to disk on every transaction commit, because we know that in the 
	  event of a crash we will be able to recover the database using the log: any changes that 
	  have not been applied to the data pages can be redone from the log records. 
	  (This is roll-forward recovery, also known as REDO.)
	
	
	PgPooling II
	- This is a service which the end user connects to and queries to as if it was a database. 
	  Pgppooling then performs load balancing on the queries and decides on which database 
	  to send the query to. Which database is connected to is decided randomly.
	