
	Why PostgreSQL is way, way better than MS SQL Server
	
	CSV
	
	- CSV is the de facto standard way of moving structured (i.e. tabular) data around. All RDBMSes 
	  can dump data into proprietary formats that nothing else can read, which is fine for backups, 
	  replication and the like, but no use at all for migrating data from system X to system Y
	  
	- PostgreSQL's CSV support is top notch. The COPY TO and COPY FROM commands support the spec 
	  outlined in RFC4180 (which is the closest thing there is to an official CSV standard) as well 
	  as a multitude of common and not-so-common variants and dialects. These commands are fast 
	  and robust. When an error occurs, they give helpful error messages. Importantly, they will 
	  not silently corrupt, misunderstand or alter data. If PostgreSQL says your import worked, 
	  then it worked properly. The slightest whiff of a problem and it abandons the import and 
	  throws a helpful error message.

     (This may sound fussy or inconvenient, but it is actually an example of a well-established 
	  design principle. It makes sense: would you rather find out your import went wrong now, or 
	  a month from now when your client complains that your results are off?)
	  
	  MS SQL Server can neither import nor export CSV
	  
	Ergonomics (http://www.pg-versus-ms.com/)
	
	- PostgreSQL supports DROP TABLE IF EXISTS, which is the smart and obvious way of saying 
	  "if this table doesn't exist, do nothing, but if it does, get rid of it". Something like this:
	  
		DROP TABLE IF EXISTS my_table;
	  
      Here's how you have to do it in MS SQL Server:
	  (Yes, it's only one extra line of code, but notice the mysterious second parameter to the 
	   OBJECT_ID function. You need to replace that with N'V' to drop a view. It's N'P' for a 
	   stored procedure.)
	  
		IF OBJECT_ID (N'dbo.some_table', N'U') IS NOT NULL
		DROP TABLE dbo.some_other_table;
		
	- PostgreSQL supports DROP SCHEMA CASCADE, which drops a schema and all the database objects 
	  inside it. This is very, very important for a robust analytics delivery methodology, where 
	  tear-down-and-rebuild is the underlying principle of repeatable, auditable, collaborative 
	  analytics work.

	  There is no such facility in MS SQL Server. You have to drop all the objects in the schema 
	  manually, and in the right order, because if you try to drop an object on which another object 
	  depends, MS SQL Server simply throws an error. This gives an idea of how cumbersome this 
	  process can be.
	  
	  NB You cannot declare variables in PostgreSQL
	  
	You can run PostgreSQL in Linux, BSD etc. (and, of course, Windows)
	
	- Unix systems dominate the server, cloud services world, super computers and for good reason 
	the are written by techies for techies. They trade off fancy user interfaces for enormous poser 
	and flexibility.
	
    Procedural language features
	
	- All you to use PL/PGSQL(Its own language) to write procedures but also allows the use of 
	  Python, Perl, Java, PHP and an extension called PL/V8 allows the use of JavaScript, this 
	  extension also supports global(i.e. cross-function call) state, allowing the user to selectively
	  cache data in RAM for fast random access.
	  
	  Suppose you need to use 100,000 rows of data from table A on each of 1,000,000 rows of data 
	  from table B. In traditional SQL, you either need to join these tables (resulting in a 100bn 
	  row intermediate table, which will kill any but the most immense server) or do something akin 
	  to a scalar subquery (or, worse, cursor-based nested loops), resulting in crippling I/O load 
	  if the query planner doesn't read your intentions properly. In PL/V8 you simply cache table 
	  A in memory and run a function on each of the rows of table B – in effect giving you 
	  RAM-quality access (negligible latency and random access penalty; no non-volatile I/O load) 
	  to the 100k-row table
	
	Native regular expression support
	
	- Regular expressons (regexen or regexes) are as fundamental to analytics work as 
	  arithmetic – they are the first choice (and often only choice) for a huge variety of text 
	  processing tasks. A data analytics tool without regex support is like a bicycle without a 
	  saddle – you can still use it, but it's painful.

	  MS SQL Server has LIKE, SUBSTRING, PATINDEX and so on, which are not comparable to proper 
	  regex support (if you doubt this, try implementing the above examples using them). There 
	  are third-party regex libraries for MS SQL Server; they're just not as good as PostgreSQL's 
	  support, and the need to obtain and install them separately adds admin overhead.
	  
	Table Inheritance
	
	- Inheritance is a concept from object-oriented databases. It opens up interesting new 
	  possibilities of database design.
	
	Types
	Arrays
	
	- PostgreSQL: arrays are supported as a first-class data type, meaning fields in tables, 
	  variables in PL/PGSQL, parameters to functions and so on can be arrays. Arrays can contain 
	  any data type you like, including other arrays. This is very, very useful. Here are some of 
	  the things you can do with arrays:

	  Store the results of function calls with arbitrarily-many return values, such as regex matches
	  Represent a string as integer word IDs, for use in fast text matching algorithms
	  Aggregation of multiple data values across groups, for efficient cross-tabulation
	  Perform row operations using multiple data values without the expense of a join
	  Accurately and semantically represent array data from other applications in your tool stack
	  Feed array data to other applications in your tool stack
	  
	JSON
	
	- PostgreSQL: full support for JSON, including a large set of utility functions for transforming
	  between JSON types and tables (in both directions), retreiving values from JSON data and 
	  constructing JSON data. Parsing and stringification are handled by simple casts, which as a 
	  rule in PostgreSQL are intelligent and robust. The PL/V8 procedural language works as 
	  seamlessly as you would expect with JSON – in fact, a JSON-type internal state in a custom 
	  aggregate (see this example) whose transition function is written in PL/V8 provides a 
	  declarative/imperative best-of-both-worlds so powerful and convenient it feels like cheating.

	  JSON (and its variants, such as JSONB) is of course the de facto standard data transfer 
	  format on the web and in several other data platforms, such as MongoDB and ElasticSearch, 
	  and in fact any system with a RESTful interface
	
	HSTORE
	
	- PostgreSQL: HSTORE is a PostgreSQL extension which implements a fast key-value store as a data
      type. Like arrays, this is very useful because virtually every high-level programming 
	  language has such a concept (and virtually every programming language has such a concept 
	  because it is very useful). JavaScript has objects, PHP has associative arrays, Python has 
	  dicts, C++ has std::map and std::unordered_map, Go has maps. And so on.

	  In fact, the notion of a key-value store is so important and useful that there exists a whole 
	  class of NoSQL databases which use it as their main storage paradigm. They're called, uh, 
	  key-value stores.
      
	  There are also some fun unexpected uses of such a data type. A colleague recently asked me if 
	  there was a good way to deduplicate a text array. Here's what I came up with:
      
	  SELECT akeys(hstore(my_array, my_array)) FROM my_table;
	  
	  i.e. put the array into both the keys and values of an HSTORE, forcing a dedupe to take place 
	  (since key values are unique) then retrieve the keys from the HSTORE. There's that PostgreSQL 
	  versatility again.
	  
	Range types
	
	- PostgreSQL: range types represent, well, ranges. Every database programmer has seen fields 
	  called start_date and end_date, and most of them have had to implement logic to detect 
	  overlaps. Some have even found, the hard way, that joins to ranges using BETWEEN can go 
	  horribly wrong, for a number of reasons.

      PostgreSQL's approach is to treat time ranges as first-class data types. Not only can you 
	  put a range of time (or INTs or NUMERICs or whatever) into a single data value, you can use 
	  a host of built-in operators to manipulate and query ranges safely and quickly. You can even 
	  apply specially-developed indices to them to massively accelerate queries that use these 
	  operators. In short, PostgreSQL treats ranges with the importance they deserve and gives 
	  you the tools to work with them effectively. I'm trying not to make this document a mere 
	  list of links to the PostgreSQL docs, but just this once, I suggest you go and see for 
	  yourself.
      
      (Oh, and if the pre-defined types don't meet your needs, you can define your own ones. You 
	  don't have to touch the source code, the database exposes methods to allow you to do this.)
	  
	NUMERIC and DECIMAL
	
	- PostgreSQL: NUMERIC (and DECIMAL - they're symonyms) is near-as-dammit arbitrary precision: 
	  it supports 131,072 digits before the decimal point and 16,383 digits after the decimal point. 
	  If you're running a bank, doing technical computation, landing spaceships on comets or 
	  simply doing something where you cannot tolerate rounding errors, you're covered.

      MS SQL Server: NUMERIC (and DECIMAL - they're symonyms) supports a maximum of 38 decimal 
	  places of precision in total.